---
layout: post
title: Piensas
category: Colombia
tags: [travel, medellín]
comments: true
---

<h3>A Few Observations</h3>

1. Time doesn’t mean much here. 

2. No open container laws (that may be everywhere but the US?) to speak of

3. A lot of men are extremely forthcoming with what they’re thinking about women. They leer with no subtlety whatsoever, and say whatever is they are thinking about a girl’s looks. I think most of the women here are used to it, and even expect as much from guys, but it still makes me pretty uncomfortable and I don’t think I could ever get used to it. It doesn’t help that I look a little bit different..I wouldn’t say “exotic,” but different from 99.99% of the women here. I think it’s all pretty harmless, but I really hate it. 

4. Having said that, every single person I’ve actually spoken to is friendly, and genuinely curious about who I am/where I came from/what I’m doing here.

5.It’s probably more a product of hostel-living/backpacking  than anything, but I think being here has triggered a borderline case of OCD in me. It’s not that it’s “dirty” here per se, it just seems that there is less of a priority placed on cleanliness. Not on the streets or in stores really (both of which are often pristine), but here, in the home. Dish soap, hand soap, clean towels, clean bed sheets…all optional.  And being situated in a valley, the air can feel a bit smoggy and polluted. I take 2-3 showers every day and still never feel all that clean. 

Alright, sorry if some of this is coming off as negative, I don’t mean for it to and I don’t want to be misinterpreted. Colombia is a wonderful place, and I am happy to be here. But I also think I have entered into a new phase of being abroad; whereas before I was starry-eyed traveler, I now feel like I have a more balanced, realistic perspective. 

Photos soon, promise!

