---
layout: post
title: Rules for When You Need Them
---

I wrote these in my notebook this morning, but for posterity:

1. Whatever you are feeling, it is just that. A feeling. It is not an event happening in the concrete, objective world. It can be acknowledged, processed, and disposed of. It is just a feeling, and it will pass.

2. There will always be a song out there that will resonate with you in this very moment. If you can’t think of one, ask a friend.

3. There’s self-medicating, and then there’s a glass of 2007 Napa Valley Cabernet Sauvignon you’ve had bottled up and waiting atop your fridge for just this occasion.

4. There isn’t always an answer or solution. Sometimes bad things happen and there is nothing to be done to stop or erase them. That sucks, but focus instead on what you can control.

5. If there isn’t a song–hell, even when there is a song–you will find it in a book.

6. Speaking of, never regret a book purchase. In fact, if you want a book, just buy the damn thing. You’ve always wanted a voluminous library.

7. Meditate. You can do it the traditional way: sit and focus on your breath. Or you can do it during anything. Meditate when you walk. Meditate on your commute. Meditate when you’re listening to music. Meditate when you kiss. Meditate when you’re eating your lunch. Meditate when you’re trying to fall asleep.

8. Experiences are more valuable than things.

9. You are better than you think, and accomplishing something difficult is often, paradoxically, easier than accomplishing something easy.

10. This is water. This is water.

Tagged books, dfw, meditate, music, this is water, wine