---
layout: post
title: Deciding What to Work On
category: Work
tags: [work, procrastination, creativity]
comments: true
---

Deciding what to work on is a luxury, but one I try to take seriously. It implies that a) you have the ability to choose what to do; and b) you have a skill set that is not so specifically tailored to one narrow type of work, but rather one that allows you to work on a variety of tasks.


With those as a given, I'm constantly asking, "What is the most important thing I could be working on right now?". This heuristic has led me to start dozens of little projects, each with a first-order goal of positively affecting as many people as I as an individual contributor can. This heuristic has also led to some of the most painful and drawn out bouts of procrastination I've experienced. It is a high bar to set for yourself, and it is almost always easier to do nothing than to do something that meets this standard. If I feel a potential project can't live up to it, I won't do it at all. Instead, I'll do something else (exercise, sleep, tv, etc.) that produces no value whatsoever, whereas working on something that doesn't quite meet this rigorous standard would at least produce SOME value, however small. And all else equal (e.g. how I value my "leisure" time) some positive output is always better than none. 

So, maybe I need to recalibrate. Maybe I'm asking myself the wrong question, or framing it too absolutely. Not everything I will work on has to help a lot of people. I should allow myself to work on something that could help even just one person, or no one at all (but still has the residual effect of challenging me, pushing my abilities, allowing me to develop and grow). Working on one idea will beget other ideas to work on, and those ideas may in turn live up to my ideal. And even if not, working on these tasks will at least develop skills, teach me something, and fulfill the necessary time of deliberate practice to become good at something. 

So it stands to reason that if the option in front of me is to either: a) work on something of little to no impact (but still uses my skills) or b) do anything else besides work, I should choose a. A recent example when I was learning Javascript was to work on a Javascript browser game--a task that didn't sit well with me when initially assigned. Under the old framework, I simply would not have done this, and if I had nothing else to work on, I would not do any work at all. Under the new framework, working on this is better than not working on something at all. It is an ideal for everything I do to have lasting, important impact, but for me it is not possible to fulfill AND simultaneously be prolific. There are times when you need to work on the trivial in order to get to the meaningful. And there are times when people just want to play a damn browser game, and you could be that person delivering them that experience. 

{% if page.comments %}
    
<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script>

/**
*  RECOMMENDED CONFIGURATION VARIABLES: EDIT AND UNCOMMENT THE SECTION BELOW TO INSERT DYNAMIC VALUES FROM YOUR PLATFORM OR CMS.
*  LEARN WHY DEFINING THESE VARIABLES IS IMPORTANT: https://disqus.com/admin/universalcode/#configuration-variables*/
/*
var disqus_config = function () {
this.page.url = PAGE_URL;  // Replace PAGE_URL with your page's canonical URL variable
this.page.identifier = PAGE_IDENTIFIER; // Replace PAGE_IDENTIFIER with your page's unique identifier variable
};
*/
(function() { // DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE
var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
s.src = '//sbro.disqus.com/embed.js';
s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
(d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
})();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>
                                

{% endif %}

</div>