---
layout: post
title: 52 Questions
category: Data
tags: [san francisco, real estate, language]
comments: true
---

<p>
Starting in 2017, each week for 52 consecutive weeks I will ask a question, and use data and programming to attempt to answer it.</p>

A few questions on my mind I'd like to explore:

		<h3>In real estate listings, what is the relationship between language (and by extension, sentiment) and factors such as price, location, time of year, and identity of real estate agent.</h3>
  	<p>My hypothesis is that the real estate agent is the most influential factor in language usage, but beyond that, that there is a negative correlation between cost and adjective count. In other words, language serves as a compensatory force for lackluster listings. Think of the use of words like "charming" and "rustic" that really mean "dilapidated" and "old."" </p><br>
 		<h3>How are our brains changing in response to the increasing amount of information we encounter in the world?</h3>
  	<p>It is well known that our brains have changed/are changing due to the volume of information we are exposed to and forced to process each day. My question is more about the degree, intensity, and nuances of such a change. How much have brains changed? And how long does it take to discern differences via brain scans, etc.? And how are these changes affecting our every day lives? </p>
  	 <br>
  	<h3>How will the Trump presidency affect basic quality of life measures such as the nation's overall happiness, physical health, employment, and spending patterns?</h3>
  	<p>Acknowledging the enormous limitations I have in knowledge, experience, and tools to answer such a question, I'd still like to think about the process and take a stab at this analysis. Some lenses through which this could be interesting: socioeconomic status, geographical location, and age of a given population.</p>
  	<h3>How many flights go over my head on a given day?</h3>
  	<p>Can I trace their flight paths? The airlines? Their waypoints. This would be a cool intersection of geo/map and flight data.</p>
  	<h3>An as yet unformed question on immigration patterns in the US once Trump takes office.</h3>
  	<p>I do not feel good about this one.</p>
