---
layout: post
title: 2016
category: Notes
tags: [twenty-sixteen, notes, draft]
comments: true
---

<p>Three hundred sixty-five days pass. In each of them we feel the quotidian churn of life happening. Wake up, get ready, go somewhere, do something, eat something, do something else, go home, go to bed. With such firmly imprinted routines it can be hard to imagine how we get anything bigger done than any one day can give us. And yet, big things happen all the time. Even to me! And even though any one day never felt all too remarkable. Here are some of the big things, which, it turns out, happen all the time, often just incrementally.</p>


<h2>2016, Month by Month</h2>

<ul>
<h3>January</h3>
 <li>I fell in love</li>
</ul>


<ul>
<h3>February</h3>
 <li>I turned 28</li>
 <li>I recreated a Sol Lewitt mural on my bedroom wall in Brooklyn</li>
 <li>I went to San Francisco</li>
 </ul>


<ul>
<h3>March</h3>
 <li>I went to Istanbul</li>
 <li>I went to Paris</li>
</ul>


<ul>
<h3>April</h3>
 <li>I quit my law firm job in New York</li>
 <li>I reunited with some of my best friends at Williams</li>
 <li>I went to Cape Cod</li>
 <li>I gave away or sold ~80% of my posessions</li>
 <li>I moved from Brooklyn to San Francisco</li>
</ul>


<ul>
<h3>May</h3>
 <li>I started a fulltime coding bootcamp</li>
 <li>I made lots of cool things for the web (which has continued, regularly, to this day)</li>
</ul>


<ul>
<h3>June </h3>
 <li>I continued the coding bootcamp</li>
 <li>I went to Seattle</li>
</ul>


<ul>
<h3>July</h3>
 <li>I continued the coding bootcamp</li>
 <li>I went to Seattle again</li>
</ul>


<ul>
<h3>August</h3>
 <li>I went to New York</li>
 <li>I TA'd for the same bootcamp I attended</li>
 <li>I started my first contract job as a professional web developer</li>
</ul>


<ul>
<h3>September</h3>
<li>I participated in a Hackathon</li>
<li>I got into a bike accident</li>
<li>I got mugged at gunpoint (rough month)</li>
<li>I went to Houston</li>
<li>I went to New York again, where I attended the Lesbians Who Tech conference</li>
</ul>


<ul>
<h3>October</h3>
<li>I helped someone research and write a Petition for Writ of Certiorari to the Supreme Court</li>
<li>I started a new job in San Francisco</li>
</ul>

<ul>
  <h3>November</h3>
<li>I went to Napa with my family for Thanksgiving</li>
<li>I built this blog and published a bunch of half-finished stuff I've been working on</li>
</ul>

<ul>
<h3>December</h3>
<li>I kept working on this blog and publishing half-finished stuff I've been working on</li>
<li>I started making daily data visualizations</li>
</ul>

<br>
<p>This doesn't account for many other significant, life-altering events that are hard to spell out in words or that I don't necessarily want to post about. Things like: meeting many extraordinary people, falling in and out of love again, the miles and miles of running and biking in beautiful places, the ambitious meals I made, the sketches and paintings and innumerable failed experiments. The stuff that fills our lives, disabuses us of the idea of routine, keeps us both interested and interesting.</p>
