---
layout: post
title: January
category: Notes
tags: [twenty-seventeen, notes, goals]
comments: true
---

<h1>January in Review</h1>

<p>One of my goals this year was to be more thoughtful about my routines and habits. I want to optimize what's working and eliminate what isn't. I did a good job of tracking particular variables I wanted to measure and improve throughout the month of January. I viewed it as a month of experimentation, so that I could come up with an ideal system to put into practice in February.</p>

<h2>Breakfast Experiment</h2>
<p>The biggest example of this has been in intermittent fasting. I have been practicing some form of it since 2014, and thought it high time to re-examine to see if it's really benefiting me. Now, I have zero appetite in the morning -- perhaps a consequence of adapting to IF, or perhaps that's my natural state and is why I'm drawn to IF-ing in the first place--I don't want to confuse causation with correlation.</p>

<p>Anyhow, in spite of my resistance to eating in the morning, I forced myself to eat a balanced breakfast every day for a week (Greek yogurt, walnuts, and blueberries). A few days in, I noticed my appetite changing. I started to actually feel hunger in the morning, before eating, as if anticipating the imminent meal. My appetite also seemed to increase throughout the day as well. You would think eating a protein-rich breakfast would satiate me until lunch, but I actually found myself craving lunch sooner in the day than I normally do when I abstain from breakfast. My amateur theory is that eating a meal triggers a fed (vs. fasted) state, in which blood sugar goes up then down and thus "opens the floodgates" to more hunger. When I skip breakfast, I don't start to feel hunger until noon the earliest, but more often around 1 or 2 in the afternoon.</p>

<p>The other thing I observed was that I rapidly gained weight after instituting daily breakfast for a week. I started the week at 1XX (yeah I'm not revealing my weight) and ended the week at 1XX + 5! This really surprised me, because even though I was eating breakfast where I normally wouldn't, I wasn't eating more calories overall; I scaled back my lunch and dinner so that caloric intake remained constant. I don't really know what to make of this, other than that it's quite depressing; if I ever want to turn into a breakfast person in the future, it may come at the cost of weight gain.</p>

<h2>Exercise</h2>
<p></p>


<h2>Meditation</h2>
<p></p>


<h2>Sleep</h2>
<p></p>
