---
layout: post
title: January
category: Notes
tags: [twenty-seventeen, notes, goals]
comments: true
---

<h1>January in Review</h1>

<p>One of my goals this year was to be more thoughtful about my health-related routines and habits. I want to optimize what's working and eliminate what isn't. I conducted a few experiments and recorded so I wanted to measure and improve throughout the month of January. I viewed it as a month of experimentation, so that I could come up with an ideal system to put into practice in February.</p>

<h2>Breakfast Experiment</h2>
<p>The biggest example of this has been in intermittent fasting. I have been practicing some form of it since 2014, and thought it high time to re-examine to see if it's really benefiting me. Now, I have zero appetite in the morning -- perhaps a consequence of adapting to IF, or perhaps that's my natural state and is why I'm drawn to IF-ing in the first place--I don't want to confuse causation with correlation.</p>

<p>Anyhow, in spite of my resistance to eating in the morning, I forced myself to eat a balanced breakfast every day for a week (Greek yogurt, walnuts, and blueberries). A few days in, I noticed my appetite changing. I started to actually feel hunger in the morning, before eating, as if anticipating the imminent meal. My appetite also seemed to increase throughout the day as well. You would think eating a protein-rich breakfast would satiate me until lunch, but I actually found myself craving lunch sooner in the day than I normally do when I abstain from breakfast. My amateur theory is that eating a meal triggers a fed (vs. fasted) state, in which blood sugar goes up then down and thus "opens the floodgates" to more hunger. When I skip breakfast, I don't start to feel hunger until noon the earliest, but more often around 1 or 2 in the afternoon.</p>

<p>The other thing I observed was that I rapidly gained weight after instituting daily breakfast for a week. I started the week at 1XX (yeah I'm not revealing my weight) and ended the week at 1XX + 5! This really surprised me, because even though I was eating breakfast where I normally wouldn't, I wasn't eating more calories overall; I scaled back my lunch and dinner so that caloric intake remained constant. I don't really know what to make of this, other than that it's quite depressing; if I ever want to turn into a breakfast person in the future, it may come at the cost of weight gain.</p>

<h2>Exercise</h2>
<p>January started off great in the land of fitness. In late December I joined a gym that has a swimming pool and squash courts, and planned to shift my workouts from traditional cardio and weight lifting to these more engaging activities. I wanted to give my joints a rest from all the running leading up to a 15k I was training for, so swimming fit the cardio bill. I also got nostalgic for the days I'd play squash with friends at Williams, and remembered it being a fantastic workout. So I committed to playing squash at least once a week as well.</p>
<p>Alas, life sometimes throws curveballs at you and one came at me in the form of a severe lower back injury. Since early January I've been experiencing excruciating pain in my lower right back/upper butt region (yup, a pain the butt), which has been diagnosed as Piriformis Syndrome. The piriformis is a muscle deep in the glutes, and the sciatic nerve runs right through it. I damaged the muscle which is putting undue pressure on the sciatic nerve, and has caused me many nights awoke in agony, and many days operating at half capacity because of the pain.</p>
<p>Fortunately, there are still some things I can do with this injury. I have been using the elliptical machine 3-4 times per week at varying intensities, which actually helps the injury by loosening up my muscles and increasing blood flow. I have also been spending more time doing yoga stretches specific to the hip/piriformis region, and foam rolling the hell out of my behind for a solid 20 minutes every day. On days I don't go to the gym, I've been going on long walks. This all helps and keeps me sane.</p>
<p>I am starting physical therapy for the PS this Friday, and until the pain subsides will put a pause on my squash/swimming plan. In the meantime I'll continue going to the gym every other day and maintaining the elliptical/yoga/foam rolling routing.</p>


<h2>Meditation</h2>
<p></p>


<h2>Sleep</h2>
<p>In spite of the aforemention pain-induced sleep interruptions, I deliberately tried getting more sleep than usual this month. My average is about 7.5 hours per night, but I wanted to see if there was any discernible difference from increasing that to 8/8.5 hours. </p>
<p>I didn't conduct the most conscientious experiment in this regard, as there were dozens of other variables at play this month that could have affected the results (introducing breakfast, meditating more, reducing caffeine intake sorta, and the back injury). So I can't reliably say I was better off, worse off, or the same, with a little bit more sleep. Anecdotally, I'd say I didn't feel much different. I'll aim to do a more controlled sleep experiment in the future. </p>
